Greetings to all esteemed fellow practitioners and
friends! Every year, as we approach the new year and the
old year draws to a close, each
family holds a
year-end ceremony and a year-end meal. While some families hold the ceremony on
the 30th, others hold it
on the day of the Kitchen God and the Stove God.
Today, I
received a
question from a Buddhist follower regarding the
year-end ceremony combined
with repentance and prayer. The question is
as
follows: Can the year-end ceremony be combined with
repentance and prayer? The question is: "The
year-end ceremony is an important occasion
for family reunion and giving thanks to ancestors.
However, I wonder if it is possible to combine the
year-end ceremony with repentance
and prayer? And I don't know if
this would deviate from the tradition of the
year-end ceremony. Thank you, esteemed fellow
practitioners and friends."
It becomes a tradition when many people do something and repeat it at a certain time.
The year-end offering to thank
ancestors is a beautiful tradition. It means that
at the end of each year, a feast is prepared to offer to
ancestors
because they have blessed and protected their descendants throughout the year.
Therefore, the year-end offering
to express gratitude is
a
very
good intention. People believe
that whatever they have received during the
year is due to their ancestors' blessings. Anything bad or
unpleasant is due to themselves, while
anything good is due to their ancestors' blessings.
This is a very good and benevolent intention, and
from this benevolent intention,
they will receive blessings. Therefore, the
offering to
ancestors will naturally bring blessings to the family;
that is the law of cause and
effect. As for the year-end offering,
for Buddhist disciples, we
simply refrain from killing living beings.  We should buy
meat
that animals
have sacrificed for other reasons, what
we call "Three
Pure Meats." Three Pure Meats means meat of
three kinds of purity. It means that we do
not have the intention to kill, we do not incite killing,
we do not kill, our actions
do not kill. This is called Three
Pure Meats. We buy them, we cook them, we
offer them to our ancestors as a sacrifice, thanking them for giving us life and for continuing our
lineage.
We thank our ancestors, grandparents, parents who have passed away, for their birth,
upbringing, and for continuing our karmic connection with our
blood relatives who
have done so much good for us,
nurturing and caring for each other. We
thank them for
everything they have protected us throughout the past year.
This year-end offering ceremony will bring
us blessings. And the question is, in
this year-end offering ceremony, we combine it with
repentance. For example, we can repent with a
transformational repentance prayer, or repent with a prayer for the three
karmic roots.  Or, if we repent using all the
repentance scriptures, is that
acceptable and in line with good traditions?
Dear fellow practitioners and
friends, this is very much in line with
good traditions because we offer a meal
to our ancestors, our
deceased grandparents and parents, and then we turn to the
Buddha and repent for
our sins. Wouldn't our ancestors be happy? Because I
have these mistakes, I
rely on the Buddha's teachings to repent, and
then I
pray for a better life.
Which grandparents and parents don't want
their children to prosper and be
happy? So, if we live
responsibly, wouldn't our grandparents and parents be
happy? Therefore, in
our repentance ceremony, we repent for
our sins, and then we can invite
our ancestors and forefathers to come and repent with the
Buddha. Isn't that good? Everyone makes mistakes; if we make mistakes, our ancestors also make mistakes.  In the old days, wasn't it true? For
example, if we were unfilial, it
could be our parents who were gone. Even though they are gone, we
might have been unfilial
towards our grandparents. Our grandparents might also have been
unfilial towards our ancestors. So,
we would invite our ancestors to witness
our repentance, right? Then, we would invite them to repent
before the Buddha. Isn't that the
act of a filial child? It's very
filial. The Buddha taught us that
we must bring our ancestors back
to the righteous path, know how to repent, and take refuge in the
Three Jewels. That's merit.
Then, when we repent, we create
merit, and when we make offerings to our
ancestors, we have more merit of filial piety.
We then dedicate this merit and
pray for our ancestors
to be liberated, peaceful, and
continue to bless their descendants. Isn't that
good? It's a beautiful thing.
Therefore, in the practice of offering sacrifices,
we combine it with repentance.
With prayers dedicated to our
ancestors, wishing them well, liberation, and
refuge in the Three Jewels, and praying for
the family and descendants to be freed from evil
karma, and for the new year to bring
prosperity, good fortune, and health,
this prayer is good. Everything will be auspicious, so
this is very good.
Therefore, the year-end offering ceremony can be combined
with the repentance ceremony. We invite
our ancestors to
participate in the repentance ceremony.
After repentance, we offer food to our
ancestors, then invite them to
eat until they are full, and then they take refuge in the
Three Jewels. If
any ancestor hasn't finished eating, they can take refuge in the Buddha and then continue
eating. That's according to our hearts. That's
according to
our wishes. And any
ceremony for our ancestors
should be combined with practice, chanting, repentance, and
prayer. It's all
good, not just the
year-end offering ceremony. With sincere devotion, I wish all fellow
practitioners and friends...  With
families applying Buddhist teachings to their
lives in a positive and effective way,
the family enjoys happiness, peace, and auspiciousness in all things.
Greetings and see you again
in the next Q&A session, dear fellow practitioners and friends.
[Music]